---
tags:
  - RingTheory
---
Links: [[Cauchy-Riemann Equations]], [[Complex Numbers]], [[Important Functions in Complex Numbers]]

We can solve the equation
$$
x^2 +1 = 0
$$
but instead of using, real numbers, where there are not any solutions. We can actually we treat it as a matrix equation, writing it as such we can actually get that
$$
X^2 + \Bbb 1 = 0
$$
We are going to limit ourselves to $2\times 2$ real matrices, with the added restriction that $X$ is [[Isometries in Vector Spaces|orthogonal]], i.e., $X^\top  = X^{-1}$. Then we look that since 
$$
X^2 =-\Bbb 1
$$
We can multiply by $X^\top$ on both sides and we get that 
$$
X = -X^\top
$$
Meaning that is anti symmetric and the diagonal is full of $0$'s. Then we can see that the only two solutions are actually of the form
$$
X =
\begin{pmatrix}
0 & -a\\
a& 0
\end{pmatrix}
$$
Plugging into the original equation we actually get that 
$$
a^2 =1
$$
meaning that $a = \pm 1$. We then, if we take the positive root we actually get that 
$$
\Bbb I := \begin{pmatrix}
0 & -1\\
1 & 0
\end{pmatrix}
$$
and the other solution, is $-I = I^\top$. This is the equivalent to $I$ in the usual complex numbers.

Now we need a way to get ring isomorphism from $\Bbb R$ to a subspace of $2\times 2$ matrices. The way to do it is by
$$
a\mapsto a\Bbb 1
$$
If we examine the space that generated by the linear combinations of $\Bbb 1$ and $I$,
$$
C = \left\{\left.
\begin{pmatrix}
a & -b \\
b &a 
\end{pmatrix}= a\Bbb 1+b\Bbb I\;\right|\;a, b\in \Bbb R\right\}
$$
Let $Z \in C$, with $Z = a\Bbb 1 + bI$ then we can define
- $\Re (Z)= a$
- $\Im(Z) = b$
We see that $C\cong \Bbb R^2$, since they have the same number of dimensions.

And we can see that $Z= 0$ iff $a = b= 0$. Since this is a vector space, we can add two elements together. $Z_1 = a\Bbb 1 + b \Bbb I$ and $Z_2 = c\Bbb 1 + d\Bbb I$. 
$$
Z_1 + Z_2 = (a + c)\Bbb 1 +(b+d)\Bbb I =
\begin{pmatrix}
a + c & -(b+d) \\
b + d & a+c
\end{pmatrix}
$$
and
$$
Z_1 Z_2 = (ac-bd)\Bbb 1 +(ad+bc)\Bbb I =
\begin{pmatrix}
ac-bd &-(ad+bc) \\
ad+bc & ac-bd
\end{pmatrix}
= Z_2Z_1
$$
Thus $C$ is also has multiplication and it is commutative, and since $C$ is a vector space then it is a group under addition. Then $C$ is a ring. We can see which members have an inverse. Let $Z \in C$, then 
$$
\det Z = a^2+b^2
$$
if $a\ne 0$ or $b\ne 0$, then $Z$ has an inverse, i.e., we can see that if $Z \ne 0$ iff $Z$ has an inverse. Then $C$ is a field. Lastly, we can calculate the inverse of $Z\in C$, 
$$
Z^{-1} = \frac{1}{\det Z} Z^{\top}
$$
This $Z^\top$ is the complex conjugate of the $Z$. If $Z= a\Bbb 1 + b \Bbb I$, then $Z^\top = a\Bbb 1 - b\Bbb I$. Using properties of the transpose of matrices we actually get that
- $(Z_1 + Z_2)^\top = Z_1^\top + Z_2^\top$
- $(Z_1Z_2)^\top = Z_1^\top Z_2^\top$

We can actually see that $C \cong \Bbb C$, since every aspect of $\Bbb C$ is perfectly replicated in $C$.

We need to see how the power of $I$ behave, and we can simplify it as:
$$
I^n = 
\begin{cases}
\Bbb 1 & n \equiv 0 \pmod 4 \\
 \Bbb I & n \equiv 1 \pmod 4 \\
-\Bbb 1 & n \equiv 2 \pmod 4 \\
-\Bbb I & n \equiv 3 \pmod 4 \\
\end{cases}
$$
With this we can use the [[Jordan Normal Form#Matrix Exponential|matrix exponential]], that converges for every matrix, and get that
$$
\exp(b\Bbb I) = \cos(b)  \Bbb 1 +\sin (b)\Bbb I
$$
and we see that $\exp(b\Bbb I) \in \text{SO}(2)$. Since the multiplication of elements in $C$ is commutative, then 
$$
\exp(a\Bbb 1 + b\Bbb I) = e^{a}(\cos(b)\Bbb 1+ \sin(b)\Bbb I)
$$
We can see why multiplication by a complex number, has a rotation and an amplification. Since we can deconstruct into polar coordinates like,
$$
Z= r \exp(\theta \Bbb I)
$$
where $r>0$ and $\theta \in [0, 2\pi)$. The $r$ represents the amplification part and $\exp(\theta \Bbb I)$ represents the rotation part. 

Lastly if we try to diagonalize a complex numbers we can actually get that
$$
Z = a\Bbb 1+ b\Bbb I =
\begin{pmatrix}
a & -b \\
b & a
\end{pmatrix}
= \frac{1}{2i} 
\begin{pmatrix}
i & -i \\
1 & 1
\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix}
a+bi & 0 \\
0 & a-bi
\end{pmatrix}
\begin{pmatrix}
1 & i \\
-1 & i
\end{pmatrix}
$$
using the usual complex numbers. Which shines a light on the connection between the matrix representation of the usual complex numbers. 