Tags: #LinearAlgebra 
Links: [[Matrix Representation of Linear Transformations]], [[The Rank of a Matrix and Matrix Inverses]], [[The Rank of a Matrix and Matrix Inverses]]
# Theoretical Aspects

The system of equations

$$ \begin{align*} a_{11} x_1+ a_{12} x_2+&\dots + a_{1n} x = b_1\\ a_{21} x_1+ a_{22} x_2+&\dots + a_{2n} x = b_2\\ &\vdots\\ a_{m1} x_1+ a_{m2} x_2+&\dots + a_{mn} x = b_m\\

\end{align*} $$

is where $a_{ij}$ and $b_i$ for $1 \le i \le m$ and $1 \le j \le n$, are scalars in the field $\Bbb F$ and $x_1$, $x_2, \dots x_n$ are $n$ variables taking values in $\Bbb F$, is a called ***********_a system of $m$ linear equations in $n$ unkowns over the field $\Bbb F$_.

The $m \times n$ matrix

$$ A = \begin{pmatrix} a_{11} & a_{12}& \cdots & a_{1n} \\ a_{21} & a_{22}& \cdots & a_{2n} \\ \vdots & \vdots & & \vdots  
\\ a_{m1} & a_{m2}& \cdots & a_{mn} \\ \end{pmatrix} $$

is called _**************the matrix of coefficients**************_ of the system. If we let

$$ x = \begin{pmatrix} x_1 \\ x_2 \\ \vdots \\ x_n \end{pmatrix}

\qquad b = \begin{pmatrix} b_1 \\ b_2 \\ \vdots \\ b_n \end{pmatrix} $$

Then the system can be rewritten as a single matrix equation $Ax = b$

A _********solution********_ to the system is an $n$-tuple

$$ s = \begin{pmatrix} s_1 \\ s_2 \\ \vdots \\ s_n \end{pmatrix} $$

such that $As = b$. The set of all solutions of the system is called a the ************solution set************ of the system. The system is called _**********consistent**********_ if its solution set is nonempty; otherwise is called ************inconsistent************.

**********Def:********** A system $Ax = b$ of $m$ linear equations and $n$ unkowns is said to be homogeneous if $b = 0$. Otherwise the system is said to be _nonhomogeneous._

**********Th:********** Let $Ax = 0$ be a homogeneous system of $m$ linear equations in $n$ unkowns over a field $\Bbb F$. Let $K$ denote the set of all solutions to $Ax = 0$. Then $K = N(L_A)$; hence $K$ is a subspace of $\Bbb F^n$ of dimension $n -r(L_A) = n - r(A) = n(L_A)$

**********Cor:********** If $m < n$, the system $Ax = 0$ has nonzero solutions

**********Th:********** Let $K$ be the solution set of a consitent system of linear equations $Ax =b$, and let $K_H$ be the set of the corresponding homogeneous system $Ax = 0$. Then for any solution $s$ to ${Ax =b}$

$$ K = s + K_H $$

**********Th:********** Let $Ax = b$ be a system of equations of $n$ linear equations in $n$ unknowns. If $A$ is invertible, then the system has exactly one solution, namely $A^{-1} b$. Conversely, if the system has exactly one solution, then $A$ is invertible

************Th:************ Let $Ax = b$ be system of linear equations. Then the system is consitent iff $r(A) = r(A| b)$

********Cor:******** Let $Ax = b$ be system of linear equations. Then the system is consitent iff $b \in R(L_A)$

### An Application

In economics, we can model an economic phenomen using linear algebra.

In particular, if commodities niether enter nor leave the system, this case is referred to as the _**closed system**_.

In a closed system, we need that consumption is equal to the income of each person. Then if we model it, we need that the coefficients of each column sum to $1$, and the matrix $A$ of coefficients, has positive entries and it is called an _**********input-output or consumption matrix**********_. In particular we care about the case where the economy is stable. In this case, we care about the matrix equation $Ap = p$, this is calle the equilibrium condition

We say that for vectors $b = (b_1, \dots, b_n)$ and $c= (c_1, \dots, c_n)$ in $\Bbb R^n$, we use the notation $b \ge c$ $[ b> c]$ to mean $b_i \ge c_i$ $[b_i > c_i]$ for all $i$ . The vector $b$ is called _nonnegative $[$positive_$]$ if $b \ge 0$ $[b >0]$

**********Th:********** Let $A$ be an $n \times n$ input-output matrix having the form

$$ A = \begin{pmatrix} B & C \\ D & E \end{pmatrix} $$

where $D$ is a $1 \times (n-1)$ positive vector and $C= (n-1) \times 1$ positive vector. Then ${(I-A)x = 0}$ has a one dimensional solution set that is generated by a nonnegative vector.

In the **********open model**********, we assume that there is an outside demand for each of the commodities produced. The way we modify our input-output matrix, is by making the sum of the columns not exceed one.

We say that $d$ is the outside demand vector, in other words, $d_i$ referes to the outside demand for the $i$th product. If we assume that everything produced is consumed, then we can get a similar equilibrium condition for the open model, namely, the surplus of each commodity must equal their corresponding demands. Hence

$$ x_i - \sum_{j = 1}^n A_{ij} x_j = d_i \quad \text{for all }i \le n $$

In general, we must find a nonnegative solution to $(I-A)x = d$, where $A$ is a matrix with nonnegative entries, and $d\ge 0$. It is easy to see that if $(I-A)^{-1}$ exists it is nonnegative, then the desired solution is $(I-A)^{-1} d$.

We can calculate $(I -A)^{-1}$ as a [[Power Series in R]], if $A^k$ converges to the zero matrix, and get that

$$ (I-A)^{-1} = \sum_{k = 0}^\infty A^k $$

Then if we can’t calculate $(I-A)^{-1}$, then we can approximate it

# Computational Aspect

**********Def:********** Two systems of linear equations are called **********equivalent********** if they have the same solution set

******Th:****** Let $Ax = b$ be a system of $m$ linear equations in $n$ unkowns, and let $C$ be an invertible $m \times m$ matrix. Then the system $(CA) x= Cb$ is equivalent to $Ax = b$

******Cor:****** Let $Ax = b$ be a system of $m$ linear equations in $n$ unkowns. If $(A' \mid b')$ is obtained from $(A \mid b)$ by a finite number of elementary row operations, then the system $A'x = b'$ is equivalent to the orginal system.

******Def:****** A matrix is said to be in ******reduced row echelon form****** if

- Any row containing a nonzero entry precedes any row in which all the entries are $0$
- The first nonzero entry of each row is the only nonzero entry in its column
- The first nonzero entry of each row is $1$ and it occurs in a column to the right of the nonzero entry in the preceding row

There is no consensus over what does **Gaussian elimination** and the _**Gauss-Jordan method**_ actually mean. I will use the small consensus I found that ********************Gaussian elimination******************** it is used to put the matrix in the row-echelon form and Gauss-Jordan to put it into reduced row echelon form. In this context we say that Gaussian elimination large matrices, makes $50\%$ less operations than Gauss-Jordan method.

****Th:**** Gauss-Jordan method transforms any matrix into its reduced row echelon form

**********Th:********** Let $Ax = b$ be a system of $r$ nonzero equations in $n$ unkowns. Suppose ${r(A) = r(A \mid b)}$ and that $(A \mid b)$ is in reduced row echelon form. Then

- $r(A) = r$
- If the general solution obtained by the procedure of Gauss-Jordan where we find a basis for $N(L_A)$, being $\{ u_i\}_{i =1}^{n-r}$,

$$ s = s_0 + \sum_{k = 1}^{n-r} t_i u_i $$

with parameters $t_i \in \Bbb F$, and $s_0$ a solution to the system.

********Th:******** Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix of rank $r>0$, and let $B$ the reduced row echelon form of $A$. Then

- The number of nonzero rows in $B$ is $r$
- For each $1 \le i \le r$, there is a column $b_j$ of $B$ such that is $b_{j_i} = e_i$
- The columns of $A$ numbered $j_1, j_2, \dots, j_r$ are linearly independent
- For each $1 \le k \le n$, if the column $k$ of $B$ is $d_1 e_1+ d_2e_2+\dots+d_r e_r$, then the column $k$ of $A$ is $d_1a_{j_1}+d_2a_{j_2}+ \dots d_ra_{j_r}$

************Cor:************ The reduced row echelon form of a matrix is unique