Tags: #LinearAlgebra 
Links: [[Elementary Matrix Operations and Elementary Matrices]], [[Isomorphism of Vector Spaces]], [[Matrix Representation of Linear Transformations]]
********Def:******** If $A \in \cal M_{m \times n} (\Bbb F)$, we define the _****rank****_ of $A$, denoted $r(A)$ or $\operatorname{rank}(A)$ to be the rank of the linear transformation $L_A: \Bbb{F^n \to F^n}$

******Th:****** Let $T: V \to W$ be a linear transformation between finite dimensional vector spaces, and let $\beta$ and $\gamma$ be ordered bases for $V$ and $W$, respectively. Then $r(T) = r([T]_\beta^\gamma)$

**************Th:************** Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix. If $P$ and $Q$ are invertible $m \times m$ and $n \times n$ matrices respectively, then

- $r(AQ) = r(A)$
- $r(PA) = r(A)$

and therefore

- $r(PAQ)=r(A)$

**********Cor:********** Elementary row and column operations on a matrix are rank-preserving

********Th:******** The rank of any matrix equals the maximum number of its linearly independent columns; that is, the rank of a matrix is the dimension of th subspace genereated by the columns

********Th:******** Let $A$ be $m \times n$ matrix of rank $r$. Then $r\le m, n$ and, by means of finite number of elementary row and column operation $A$ can be transformed into a matrix

$$ D = \begin{pmatrix} I_r &O_1 \\ O_2 & O_3 \end{pmatrix} $$

where $O_1$, $O_2$ and $O_3$ are zero matrices. Thus $D_{ii} = 1$ for $i \le r$ and $D_{ij} =0$ otherwise

************Cor:************ Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix of rank $r$. Then there exist invertible matrices $B$ and $C$ of sizes $m \times m$ and $n\times n$, respectively, such that ${D= BAC}$, where

$$ D = \begin{pmatrix} I_r &O_1 \\ O_2 & O_3 \end{pmatrix} $$

where $O_1$, $O_2$ and $O_3$ are zero matrices.

******Cor:****** Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ matrix. Then

- $r(A) = r(A^\top)$
- The rank of a matrix equals the mininum number of its linearly independent rows; that is, the rank of a matrix is the dimension of the subspace generated by its rows
- The rows and columns of any matrix generete subspaces of the same dimension, numerically equal to the rank of a matrix

************Cor:************ Every invertible matrix is a product of elementary matrices

****************Th:**************** Let $T: V \to W$ and $U : W \to Z$ be linear transformations on finite-dimensional vector spaces, $V, W,$ and $Z$ and let $A$ and $B$ be matrices such that the product $AB$ is defined. Then

- $r(UT) \le r(T) , r(U)$
- $r(AB) \le r(A), r(B)$

********Def:******** Let $A$ and $B$ be $m \times n$ and $m \times p$, respectively. By _the augmented matrix_ $(A \mid B)$, we mean the $m \times (n+p)$ matrix $(A \; B)$, that is the matrix whose first $n$ columns are columns of $A$, and whose last $p$ columns are columns of $B$

********Th:******** Let $A$ and $B$ be matrices with $n$ rows. Then, ${M(A \mid B) = (MA \mid MB)}$ for any $m \times n$ matrix $M$

With this definition, we can find the inverse of a matrix by exploiting, the fact that if $A$ is invertible, then we know that $A^{-1}$ is a product of elementary matrices. Then let $C= (A \mid I_n)$, then

$$ A^{-1} C= A^{-1}(A\mid I_n) = ( I_n \mid A^{-1}) $$

Then $A^{-1} =E_p E_{p-1} \dots E_1$, we get that

$$ A^{-1} C = E_p E_{p-1} \dots E_1(A \mid I_n) =(I_n \mid A^{-1}) $$

Conversely to find the inverse matrix of $A$, then we want to transform ${(A \mid I_n)}$ into $(I_n \mid B)$ with finite number of elementary operations. Let $E_1, E_{2}, \dots, E_p$ be the elementary operations used, and ${M= E_p E_{p-1} \dots E_1}$, then we have that

$$ M(A \mid I_n ) = (MA \mid M)=(I_n \mid B) $$

then $M = A^{-1} = B$.